so let's talk of AMD I decided I wanted
to look at some more Andes
[Music]
yeah we like coffee around here huge
thanks to trade coffee for sponsoring
today's video the trade coffee you can
discover new coffees from the nation's
top Roasters and have them delivered
directly to your door brands like
Auggie's which is actually a local
coffee shop where I used to spend pretty
much every single lunch hour back when I
worked in IT but if you aren't sure what
coffee is right for you take the short
coffee quiz and trade will curate the
best matches for you and have them
delivered straight to your home as often
as you like and in fact the first 100
viewers that click my link in the
description below will get 30% off their
first bag and get free shipping so what
are you waiting for
find your new flavor at trade coffee
okay so we're not doing any AMD versus
Intel and this one we're doing AMD
versus AMD where I want to take the last
processors that were launched on a AMD's
m+ architecture which is technically the
2000 series CPUs but they were labeled
as 3000 series CPUs but they weren't
3000 so you CPUs really they were 2.5
Series CPUs versus the cheapest Zen 2
architecture I'm basically talking about
the 3400 G which is a fork or a thread
part versus the AMD 3100 which is a fork
or a thread part versus the 3300 X which
is a fork or a thread part so we're not
doing Intel in there or any of that sort
of stuff but speaking of Intel I do need
to make a correction in our previous
video I incorrectly stated that AMD does
not perform in AVX instructions and that
was false and I also called the I GPU
Navi ID of habit
it is Vega but we know their Vega 11
graphics it even says it right on the
box we know that but what we know
doesn't mean that we say it good
regarding the confusing way I just
explained the CPUs rise in 3000 series
is then - first gen Rison is the 1000
series CPUs and then the 2000 series
CPUs like the 2700 X and all that and
the 3200 and 3400 G are Zen plus which
is an improvement upon the Zen one
architecture but the 3000 series like
3800 X all the way down to the Verizon v
3000 series our Zen - so for example the
3400 G that we're comparing to the 3100
and then including the 3300 X that we
did in our previous video putting those
numbers up there is 12 nanometer process
however the new 3000 series is seven
nanometer process so we're looking at
some eyepiece
improvements clearly there were some
clock differences between the older CPUs
versus the new ones and considering the
fact that the 3400 G launched in q2 of
2019 yeah a year ago do believe it's
already been a year versus the q2
offerings now the 30 130 300x I wanted
to see just how far AMD has come in the
last year so I was really curious as to
what the differences are in terms of
improvement there was another reason why
I'm doing this video is I also said in
the previous one that a lot of people
were just like incorrectly said Navi
we're like well the 3300 X is just a
3400 G with the vacant stripped and the
3100 is just a 3,200 G because of the
GPU being taken out and I think it was
their naming is what caused them this
confusion from AMD simply because of the
fact that they're both 3000 series parts
so you can't have a new 3200 and then
3200 G oh I guess I could have but the
problem is yeah
the way that the the performance stacks
up is confusing and they're almost it's
almost happening now in the CPU space as
to like what Nvidia does to its own
products back with GPUs so some of the
specs here just to kind of go over so
you can see what some of the changes are
the 3100 which is then - it's got a base
frequency of 3.6 a 1/4 both frequency at
3.9 and all quarter both frequency of
3.9 so we're actually seeing the single
core and the all core frequencies are
the same I remember this four core eight
thread now both the 30 130 300x have 16
megabytes of l3 cache only 4 megabytes
on the 3400 G so that's are you already
know there's gonna be a performance
difference there
no I GPU on on the the latest parts like
I said but you also get a memory
improvement in terms of capacity so the
3130 300x have a max capacity of 128
gigabytes which is funny because the
only people that would run that much
memory are doing like very heavy
workstation type tasks and/or building
small servers I don't think you would
use these parts for that but that's
probably because they use the same
memory controllers and such as the big
brothers so it's just it's a feature
that kind of flowed its way down the
product stack which is nice where you're
not chopping up these features for the
lower end parts you I mean it's why not
like architecture is there but 64
gigabytes was the max you could put in
the 3400 G
they're both 65 watt parts 12 nanometer
process on the thirty four hundred and
seven animator on both thirty one
hundred and thirty three hundred X so
with all that said we're gonna run the
exact same test that we did in our
launch video we're doing three different
gaming titles and then several different
desktop like works workflow titles I
guess we're doing Geekbench blender
Cinebench most single core and all core
and then also 3d mark the cool thing
about 3d mark is just the fact that
because we're not comparing it to an
Intel which we already know that 3d mark
really sort of favors Intel and all the
CPU tests versus AMD you can just see
how these compare across the board
because it's only AMD so how do these
three stack up
[Music]
rip 3,400 G owners and 3200 G owners
yeah we reason why we didn't use the
3200 G in this test because it's a
hundred one hundred dollar CPU versus
the 3100 which is also a 100 dollar CPU
is the 3100 gives you eight threads and
you don't get that with the 3200 so it
goes without saying or testing the 3100
would just absolutely destroy the 2200 G
because or the 3200 G because it
destroyed the 3400 G so what these
charts are really representing here is
the IPC improvements between the process
improvement for seven and a meter the
quadrupling of the CPU cache as well as
the higher core clocks on average that
you're getting with the the true 3000
series and two processors at the price
point the 3400 G we noticed some weird
behavior but it's not that weird it's
just the new CPUs are so good at just
being able to stay within their power
limits and their power targets and their
their frequency targets and just locking
they're on their own when they promise
the all core clock the 3400 G will hit
it for a little bit come down come back
come down come back when I say come down
I'm talking about maybe 50 to 100
megahertz it's kind of sad
just how far ahead the 3100 part is when
it's $50 cheaper it's beating a CPU that
is 50% more expensive that is pretty
crazy if you don't need the eye GPU and
I know I've said this before yeah the
eye GPU parts really come in handy I
said on Intel if you you should always
get the K part versus the KF part and
not worry about saving the 15 to 20
bucks it is on the eye GPU because it
comes in handy for troubleshooting
that's on the high-end stuff like you
know we're talking four or five hundred
ollar CPUs it makes no sense to
trade-off that level of performance that
you're seeing in these charts for a 3400
G with an eye GPU whether whether you're
probably not going to use it anyway
because you're gonna want to run a
discreet graphics card in the second you
plug one in just know you were getting a
significant reduction in CPU performance
for a CPU that cost 50 percent more than
the current 3100 now the other thing I
wanted to see
can we overclock a 3100 to match a 3300
X the 3300 X's all core turbo clocking
to 4.3 gigahertz
is something I can't manually overclock
on the 3400 G the 3400 G we can't even
get to get a stable for to at all times
and so that's why you didn't see any
overclocking on the 3400 G or the 3100
in this charts well with the exception
of me being curious because then the
arguments would just overclock the 3400
I don't think overclock this would even
reach the 31 hundredths or know the
truth but the 3100 is $20 less than the
3,300 X so I was curious could you save
20 bucks in overclock it to match we got
close you can see it on the charts it's
a perfect middle middle gap between
where it is fact factory factory out the
box in Uganda and the digital's of my
vise garage fans out there you can see
that it's literally at the halfway mark
between the 3300 X out of the box
settings which by the way we couldn't
manually overclock because it's already
going for 3 out of the box there's like
a wall there you try and go higher it
just crashes so it's already on its own
going as fast as it can
I don't think it's worth the saving of
the 20 bucks if you wanna know the truth
the 3100 although a great bargain at 99
bucks I think they could have charged
150 dollars for the 3300 X and it would
have made sense but at $20 savings I
think it's worth it to just go to the
3300 X so the 3100 although amazing
budget part I feel like they priced
these too close together and so my
recommendation there would be just
borrow 20 bucks from someone go dude I
don't know instacart or something for a
couple of days and make a couple bucks I
don't know however you want to make 20
extra bucks do it if you're ready
shopping these two parts I don't feel
the 3100 makes sense with how much
faster the 3300 X is for $20 yeah aim D
really could have priced it more
expensive but there you go I wanted to
kind of I was just curious what was the
single generational improvement looking
like and these these will hold true to
if you're running let's say a 2600 and
then you get an equal 3000 series CP
with the same number of core is the same
number of threads these are the same
type of improvements you'll see because
what you're seeing here is an
architectural difference not a core just
the coarse beads which should make you
excited for the 4000 series that they've
already launched on notebooks which
people have already done reviews on
showing how insane it's going to be
but Jay shy just wait for the 4000
series I don't know I don't know when
they're coming out you might buy a you
might buy a 3800 X today and tomorrow
there's a 4800 X I don't know I don't
think it's gonna happen that soon but
AMD every single year has come out with
something like my clockwork like
megahertz clockwork like over clockwork
anyway guys thanks for watching this
video I just these are this is fun and
exciting I said it in our last one
it's exciting to play with the high end
stuff but seeing the entry level stuff
be last gens high end stuff or two gems
ago or whatever in the 7,700 like a lot
of people were like you need to pay you
to do 7700 I said why we did the 7700
AMD during the press conference or the
press meeting that we had made a claim
in there that we really wanted to test
and that is that the 3300 X has caught
up and passed the 7700 K which mind you
is only three years old
all right guys sound off in the comments
below 3100 or 3300 X and I might if
you're running like a 3200 G and you've
got a GPU it might even be worthwhile to
update to a 3100 you can probably get 50
bucks for 3200 and then pay 50 bucks for
3100 and win
AMD winning not the 32 but the 4.8 or 4
points